<html>
<H2> <center>Common Struggles of an Uncommon Man </center></H2>
<body><p> <h3>A father’s success starts with his son’s first failure</h3>
  
While being a fresher, I was responsible for delivering a POC which i had it working as I left to attend a 3 day “Hibernate” training. At the end of day one as I stepped out of training room to receive a phone call from my manager asking to keep the POC ready to be demoed the next morning. I hurried back only to notice POC failing to even launch. I panicked, slogged overnight, tried everything possible only to fail and fail again. At 3:43 am I dialed back on one of the several missed calls and told my dad what had happend. with limited understanding of what I was saying he said; <i>"If this does not work, it’s not end of the world"</i>, with a small pause for me to pull myself up he continued, <i>"If it is still not working, you have not tried everything"</i> and he disconnected the call.<br>

These words may have come from anyone at anytime and anywhere but at this point it made a difference; I interpreted every word (actually said in Kannada) to its core meaning, the order in which they were told, the care in the tone and invisible pat while conveying, <i>"you will crack this"</i> made a significant impact.<br>

The POC worked, we did not demo – that is another story to tell.

 <h3>Show respect to elders, particularly if they are fools</h3>
 <br>
My far relative, a respected head of a village passed away, my dad went for the last rituals and took care of things to be done. On the ceremony day an elderly person pointed out how things were supposed to be done during rituals, started blaming and shaming my father. Little did my father respond or justified even with villages defending his way. It was later I came to know that elderly man was not very fond of my father because of his achivements in his own terms. 
Three years later, In my cousin brothers marriage I reached late and was escorted by my dad to this same elderly person to take blessings. Not knowing who he was I did just that out of respect for his age only to learn the worse later. I was furious with my dad and upon confronting received a conventional “respect the elders” lecture. Couple of hours later after dinner, I met this elderly person where he said, <i>“I am not very fond of your father, but I want you to grow up just like him”.</i> At that moment I could see the guilt in his eyes heavy up while he returned with eyes to the ground. 

<h3>Winning a situation is much larger than winning an argument</h3>
<br>
My father has been the go to person for any major events amoung our relatives and hence they seek his presence during marriage proposals and so on; One such relative asked my father to accompany them to bride’s home to discuss on marriage proceedings. Note here that my cousin and his to-be bride belonged to different caste though both the families followed similar culture. Bride’s father being very particular about his reputation in his village had several conditions in marriage rituals, but the conflict one came for a particular event which bride’s father felt as a disrespect in performing to a lower cast groom. There was lot of debate between parties until my father asked one question <i>“Was the said ritual performed at bride’s elder sister’s marriage?”</i>. This made the bride’s father go tom on the hot roof, started screaming with arms here and there. Some sensible people understood, cooled him and eventually marriage happened. During lunch bride's father came to my dad ( as he had taken the responsibility of marriage since bride's father could not do the marriage in his town) and started screaming again saying the food is not as expected, my dad enquired although had no fault on his side said, <i>"we can arrage it as per expectation".</i><br> 
Cut to the next day's dinner at bride's place, my father noticed one of the dish they were service had gone bad, he silently called the groom's brother and told him not to serve that dish. Both me and bride's father were surprised to hear that especially considering what had happend the previous day. Later my dad told me the reason for his mellow nature towards them. I myself am unable to learn this, as I still have my blood shoot up whenever I recollect that person hasn't even appologiesed to my father. 

<h3>You eat to live not live to eat</h3>
My dad is slightly overweight, has diabetes and blood sugar. Say whatever may be the reason, the fact that he is not a perfect example of healthy person is not completely untrue. All that said, need all the good teachers be the best student.
I was a skinny boy when I was growing up but ate to the fullest and my mom was not a person to hold anything off my hands. My father could have scolded, teased or even restricted with supplies to tell me to eat as per need. But he chose to say something else.
<i>“You eat to live not live to eat”</i>, this followed up with excerpts from his struggle chapters which clearly convinced me. To this day I may not follow to the dot but I believe every single word he told me and when I reach that point of inculcating this habit into me then I will preach you for now it’s just there to motivate. 
</p> </body>
</html>
